.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2015 Dirk Eddelbuettel
.\"
.\" This file is part of Octave.
.\"
.\" Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" This page was contributed by Dirk Eddelbuettel <edd@debian.org>
.\" This page was completely re-written by Rik <octave@nomad.inbox5.com>
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.de Vb \" (V)erbatim (b)egin.  Use fixed width font and no justification
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve \" (V)erbatim (e)nd.  Return to regular font and justification
.ft R
.fi
..
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH MKOCTFILE 1 "3 January 2014" "GNU Octave"
.SH NAME
mkoctfile \- Compile dynamic-load modules for GNU Octave
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkoctfile\fP [\fIOPTION\fP]... file...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkoctfile\fP is used to compile C, C++, or Fortran source code in
to a dynamically loadable \fI.oct\fP file for
.BR octave (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-?\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Print help message.
.TP
.B \-I\fIdir\fP
Add include directory \fIdir\fP to compile commands.
.TP
.B \-idirafter\fIdir\fP
Add include directory to second include search path after '\fB\-I\fP'.
.TP
.B \-D\fIdef\fP
Add definition \fIdef\fP to compiler command.
.TP
.B \-l\fIlib\fP
Add library \fIlib\fP to link command.
.TP
.B \-L\fIdir\fP
Add library directory \fIdir\fP to link command.
.TP
.B \-R\fIdir\fP
Pass \fB\-R\fP\fIdir\fP to link command.
.TP
.B \-g
Enable debugging option for all compilers.
.TP
.B \-pthread
Add \fB\-pthread\fP to link command.
.TP
.B \-W...
Pass flags to the compiler such as \fB\-Wa,\fP\fIOPTION\fP.
.TP
.B \-Wl,...
Pass flags to the linker such as \fB\-Wl,-rpath=...\fP
.TP
.B \-M\fR,\fB \-\-depend
Generate dependency files (.d) for C and C++ source files.
.TP
.B \-c
Compile but do not link.
.TP
.B \-\-link-stand-alone
Link a stand-alone executable file.
.TP
.B \-s\fR,\fB --strip
Strip the output file.
.TP
.B \-\-mex
Create a MEX file.  Set the default output extension to \fB.mex\fP.
.TP
.B \-o \fIfile\fP\fR,\fB \-\-output \fIfile\fP
Output file name.  Default extension is \fB.oct\fP (or \fB.mex\fP if \-\-mex is
specified) unless linking a stand-alone executable.
.TP
.B \-p \fIVAR\fP\fR,\fB \-\-print \fIVAR\fP
Print configuration variable \fIVAR\fP.  Recognized variables are:
.RS
.Vb
    ALL_CFLAGS                FFTW3F_LDFLAGS
    ALL_CXXFLAGS              FFTW3F_LIBS
    ALL_FFLAGS                FLIBS
    ALL_LDFLAGS               FPICFLAG
    AR                        INCFLAGS
    BLAS_LIBS                 LAPACK_LIBS
    CC                        LDFLAGS
    CFLAGS                    LD_CXX
    CPICFLAG                  LD_STATIC_FLAG
    CPPFLAGS                  LFLAGS
    CXX                       LIBOCTAVE
    CXXFLAGS                  LIBOCTINTERP
    CXXPICFLAG                LIBS
    DEPEND_EXTRA_SED_PATTERN  OCTAVE_LIBS
    DEPEND_FLAGS              OCTAVE_LINK_DEPS
    DL_LD                     OCT_LINK_DEPS
    DL_LDFLAGS                RANLIB
    EXEEXT                    RDYNAMIC_FLAG
    F77                       READLINE_LIBS
    F77_INTEGER_8_FLAG        SED
    FFLAGS                    XTRA_CFLAGS
    FFTW3_LDFLAGS             XTRA_CXXFLAGS
    FFTW3_LIBS
.Ve
.RE
.TP
.B \-v\fR,\fB --verbose
Echo commands as they are executed.
.TP
.B file
Compile or link file.  Recognized file types are
.RS
.Vb
   .c    C source
   .cc   C++ source
   .C    C++ source
   .cpp  C++ source
   .f    Fortran source (fixed form)
   .F    Fortran source (fixed form)
   .f90  Fortran source (free form)
   .F90  Fortran source (free form)
   .o    object file
   .a    library file
.Ve
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Eaton <jwe@octave.org>

This manual page was contributed by Dirk Eddelbuettel
<edd@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution but
may be used by others.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
octave (1).
