.\" Copyright (C) 1996-2014 John W. Eaton
.\"
.\" This file is part of Octave.
.\"
.\" Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.de Vb \" (V)erbatim (b)egin.  Use fixed width font and no justification
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve \" (V)erbatim (e)nd.  Return to regular font and justification
.ft R
.fi
..
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH OCTAVE-CLI 1 "03 January 2014" "GNU Octave"
.SH NAME
octave-cli \- A high-level interactive language for numerical computations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoctave-cli\fP [\fIoptions\fP]... [\fIfile\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Octave is a high-level language, primarily intended for numerical
computations.  It provides a convenient command line interface for
solving linear and nonlinear problems numerically.  \fBoctave-cli\fP
has been compiled without any GUI support (Qt) which makes it smaller
than the default \fBoctave\fP executable, but also limits it to
providing just the command line interface (CLI).
.SH OPTIONS
The complete set of command-line options for \fBoctave-cli\fP is available
by running the following command from the shell.
.Vb

    octave-cli \-\-help
.Ve
.SH DOCUMENTATION
The primary documentation for Octave is written using Texinfo, the GNU
documentation system, which allows the same source files to be used to
produce online and printed versions of the manual.
.PP
You can read the online copy of the Octave documentation by issuing
the following command from within Octave.
.Vb

    octave:1> doc

.Ve
The Info files may also be read with a stand-alone program such as
\fBinfo\fP or \fBxinfo\fP.  HTML, Postscript, or PDF versions of the
documentation are installed on many systems as well.
.SH BUGS
The Octave project maintains a bug tracker at http://bugs.octave.org.
Before submitting a new item please read the instructions at
http://www.octave.org/bugs.html on how to submit a useful report.
.SH FILES
Upon startup Octave looks for four initialization files.  Each file
may contain any number of valid Octave commands.
.TP
\fIoctave-home\fP/share/octave/site/m/startup/octaverc
Site-wide initialization file which changes options for all users.
\fIoctave-home\fP is the directory where Octave was installed such as
\fB/usr/local\fP.
.TP
\fIoctave-home\fP/share/octave/\fIversion\fP/m/startup/octaverc
Site-wide initialization file for Octave version \fIversion\fP.
.TP
~/.octaverc
User's personal initialization file.
.TP
\&\.octaverc
Project-specific initialization file located in the current directory.
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Eaton <jwe@octave.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
octave (1)
