.\" Copyright (C) 2003-2015 Dirk Eddelbuettel
.\"
.\" This file is part of Octave.
.\"
.\" Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
.\" ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\" This page was contributed by Dirk Eddelbuettel <edd@debian.org>.
.\" This page was completely re-written by Rik <octave@nomad.inbox5.com>
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.de Vb \" (V)erbatim (b)egin.  Use fixed width font and no justification
.ft CW
.nf
..
.de Ve \" (V)erbatim (e)nd.  Return to regular font and justification
.ft R
.fi
..
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.TH OCTAVE-CONFIG 1 "3 January 2014" "GNU Octave"
.SH NAME
octave-config - GNU Octave component and library information retrieval
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoctave-config\fP [\fIOPTION\fP]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B octave-config
is a tool to obtain directory information for \fB.oct\fP and \fB.m\fP files for
.BR octave (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-\-m-site-dir
Display the main directory for local, or site-specific, \fB.m\fP script files.
.TP
.B \-\-oct-site-dir
Display the main directory for local, or site-specific, \fB.oct\fP dynamic-link libraries.
.TP
.B \-p \fIVAR\fP\fR,\fB \-\-print \fIVAR\fP
Print the default value of the Octave configuration variable \fIVAR\fP.
Recognized variables are:
.RS
.Vb
   API_VERSION             LOCALAPIOCTFILEDIR
   ARCHLIBDIR              LOCALARCHLIBDIR
   BINDIR                  LOCALFCNFILEDIR
   CANONICAL_HOST_TYPE     LOCALOCTFILEDIR
   DATADIR                 LOCALSTARTUPFILEDIR
   DATAROOTDIR             LOCALVERARCHLIBDIR
   DEFAULT_PAGER           LOCALVERFCNFILEDIR
   EXEC_PREFIX             LOCALVEROCTFILEDIR
   FCNFILEDIR              MAN1DIR
   IMAGEDIR                MAN1EXT
   INCLUDEDIR              MANDIR
   INFODIR                 OCTFILEDIR
   INFOFILE                OCTINCLUDEDIR
   LIBDIR                  OCTLIBDIR
   LIBEXECDIR              PREFIX
   LOCALAPIARCHLIBDIR      STARTUPFILEDIR
   LOCALAPIFCNFILEDIR      VERSION
.Ve
.RE
.TP
.B \-v\fR,\fB \-\-version
Display the version number of
.BR octave (1).
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-?\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Print help message.
.SH AUTHOR
John W. Eaton <jwe@octave.org>

This manual page was contributed by Dirk Eddelbuettel <edd@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution but may be used by others.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
octave (1).
