@c Copyright (C) 1996-2015 John W. Eaton
@c
@c This file is part of Octave.
@c
@c Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
@c under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
@c Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
@c your option) any later version.
@c
@c Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
@c ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
@c FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
@c for more details.
@c
@c You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
@c along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
@c <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

@node Arrays, Matrix and Vector Operations, Introduction, Top
@chapter Arrays
@cindex arrays

@menu
* Constructors and Assignment::
@end menu

@node Constructors and Assignment,  , Arrays, Arrays
@section Constructors and Assignment

@deftypefn Constructor {} Array<T> (void)
Create an array with no elements.
@end deftypefn

@deftypefn Constructor {} Array<T> (int @var{n} [, const T &@var{val}])
Create an array with @var{n} elements.  If the optional argument
@var{val} is supplied, the elements are initialized to @var{val};
otherwise, they are left uninitialized.  If @var{n} is less than zero,
the current error handler is invoked (@pxref{Error Handling}).
@end deftypefn

@deftypefn Constructor {} Array<T> (const Array<T> &@var{a})
Create a copy of the @var{Array<T>} object @var{a}.  Memory for the
@var{Array<T>} class is managed using a reference counting scheme, so
the cost of this operation is independent of the size of the array.
@end deftypefn

@deftypeop Assignment Array<T> Array<T>& {operator =} (const Array<T> &@var{a})
Assignment operator.  Memory for the @var{Array<T>} class is managed
using a reference counting scheme, so the cost of this operation is
independent of the size of the array.
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod Array<T> int capacity (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array<T> int length (void) const
Return the length of the array.
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array<T> T& elem (int @var{n})
@deftypemethodx Array<T> T& checkelem (int @var{n})
If @var{n} is within the bounds of the array, return a reference to the
element indexed by @var{n}; otherwise, the current error handler is
invoked (@pxref{Error Handling}).
@end deftypemethod

@deftypeop Indexing Array<T> T& {operator ()} (int @var{n})
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod Array<T> T elem (int @var{n}) const
@deftypemethodx Array<T> T checkelem (int @var{n}) const
If @var{n} is within the bounds of the array, return the value indexed
by @var{n}; otherwise, call the current error handler.
@xref{Error Handling}.
@end deftypemethod

@deftypeop Indexing Array<T> T {operator ()} (int @var{n}) const
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod Array<T> T& xelem (int @var{n})
@deftypemethodx Array<T> T xelem (int @var{n}) const
Return a reference to, or the value of, the element indexed by @var{n}.
These methods never perform bounds checking.
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array<T> void resize {(int @var{n} [, const T &@var{val}])}
Change the size of the array to be @var{n} elements.  All elements are
unchanged, except that if @var{n} is greater than the current size and
the optional argument @var{val} is provided, the additional elements are
initialized to @var{val}; otherwise, any additional elements are left
uninitialized.  In the current implementation, if @var{n} is less than
the current size, the length is updated but no memory is released.
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array<T> {const T*} data (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@c Should this be public?
@c
@c T *fortran_vec (void)

@deftypefn Constructor {} Array2<T> Array2<T> Array2 (void)
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array2<T> (int @var{n}, int @var{m})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array2<T> (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, const T &@var{val})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array2<T> (const Array2<T> &@var{a})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array2<T> (const DiagArray<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypefn

@deftypeop Assignment Array2<T> Array2<T>& {operator =} (const Array2<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod Array2<T> int dim1 (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array2<T> int rows (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array2<T> int dim2 (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array2<T> int cols (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array2<T> int columns (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array2<T> T& elem (int @var{i}, int @var{j})
@deftypemethodx Array2<T> T& checkelem (int @var{i}, int @var{j})
@end deftypemethod

@deftypeop Indexing Array2<T> T& {operator ()} (int @var{i}, int @var{j})
@end deftypeop

@c This needs to be fixed.
@c
@c T& xelem (int i, int j)
@c
@c T elem (int i, int j) const
@c T checkelem (int i, int j) const
@c T operator () (int i, int j) const

@deftypemethod Array2<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m})
@deftypemethodx Array2<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, const T &@var{val})
@end deftypemethod

@deftypefn Constructor {} Array3<T> (void)
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array3<T> (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, int @var{k})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array3<T> (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, int @var{k}, const T &@var{val})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} Array3<T> (const Array3<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypefn

@deftypeop Assignment Array3<T> Array3<T>& {operator =} (const Array3<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod Array3<T> int dim1 (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array3<T> int dim2 (void) const
@deftypemethodx Array3<T> int dim3 (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod Array3<T> T& elem (int @var{i}, int @var{j}, int @var{k})
@deftypemethodx Array3<T> T& checkelem (int @var{i}, int @var{j}, int @var{k})
@end deftypemethod

@deftypeop Indexing Array3<T> T& {operator ()} (int @var{i}, int @var{j}, int @var{k})
@end deftypeop

@c This needs to be fixed.
@c
@c T& xelem (int i, int j, int k)
@c
@c T elem (int i, int j, int k) const
@c T checkelem (int i, int j, int k) const
@c T operator () (int i, int j, int k) const

@deftypemethod Array3<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, int @var{k})
@deftypemethodx Array3<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, int @var{k}, const T &@var{val})
@end deftypemethod

@deftypefn Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (void)
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (int @var{n})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (int @var{n}, const T &@var{val})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (int @var{r}, int @var{c})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (int @var{r}, int @var{c}, const T &@var{val})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (const Array<T> &@var{a})
@deftypefnx Constructor {} DiagArray<T> (const DiagArray<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypefn

@deftypeop Assignment DiagArray<T>& {} {operator =} (const DiagArray<T> &@var{a})
@end deftypeop

@deftypemethod DiagArray<T> int dim1 (void) const
@deftypemethodx DiagArray<T> int rows (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod DiagArray<T> int dim2 (void) const
@deftypemethodx DiagArray<T> int cols (void) const
@deftypemethodx DiagArray<T> int columns (void) const
@end deftypemethod

@deftypemethod DiagArray<T> T& elem (int @var{r}, int @var{c})
@deftypemethodx DiagArray<T> T& checkelem (int @var{r}, int @var{c})
@end deftypemethod

@deftypeop Indexing DiagArray<T> T& {operator ()} (int @var{r}, int @var{c})
@end deftypeop

@c This needs to be fixed.
@c
@c T& xelem (int r, int c)
@c
@c T elem (int r, int c) const
@c T checkelem (int r, int c) const
@c T operator () (int r, int c) const

@deftypemethod DiagArray<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m})
@deftypemethodx DiagArray<T> void resize (int @var{n}, int @var{m}, const T &@var{val})
@end deftypemethod
