% Copyright (C) 1996-2015 John W. Eaton
%
% This file is part of Octave.
%
% Octave is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
% under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
% Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at
% your option) any later version.
%
% Octave is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
% ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
% FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
% for more details.
%
% You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
% along with Octave; see the file COPYING.  If not, see
% <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.


\input texinfo
@setfilename liboctave.info

@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* liboctave: (liboctave). Octave C++ Classes
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo

@c @smallbook
@c @setchapternewpage odd
@c @cropmarks
@c @finalout

@c Smaller amounts of whitespace for the 8.5 by 11 inch format.
@tex
\global\chapheadingskip = 15pt plus 4pt minus 2pt
\global\secheadingskip = 12pt plus 3pt minus 2pt
\global\subsecheadingskip = 9pt plus 2pt minus 2pt
\global\parskip 6pt plus 1pt
@end tex

@iftex
@set DONTINCLUDEGPL
@end iftex

@defindex op

@c The version.texi file doesn't include a chapter, so it must not be
@c included if you want to run the Emacs function
@c texinfo-multiple-files-update.
@include version.texi

@settitle Octave C++ Classes

@ifnottex

Copyright (C) 1996-2015 John W. Eaton.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through Tex and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of
this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
a permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for
modified versions.
@end ifnottex

@titlepage
@title Octave C++ Classes
@subtitle Edition 1.0 for Octave version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle September 1993
@author John W. Eaton
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1996, 1997 John W. Eaton.

This is the first edition of the documentation for Octave's C++ classes,
and is consistent with version @value{VERSION} of Octave.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the same conditions as for modified versions.
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Acknowledgements, (dir), (dir)
@top

This manual documents how to use, install and port Octave's C++ class
library, and how to report bugs.  It corresponds to Octave version
@value{VERSION}.
@end ifnottex

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Acknowledgements::
* Copying::
* Introduction::
* Arrays::
* Matrix and Vector Operations::
* Matrix Factorizations::
* Ranges::
* Nonlinear Functions::
* Nonlinear Equations::
* Optimization::
* Quadrature::
* Ordinary Differential Equations::
* Differential Algebraic Equations::
* Error Handling::
* Installation::
* Bugs::
* Concept Index::
* Function Index::

 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Acknowledgements

* Contributors::                People who contributed to developing of Octave.

Arrays

* Constructors and Assignment::

Optimization

* Objective Functions::
* Bounds::
* Linear Constraints::
* Nonlinear Constraints::
* Quadratic Programming::
* Nonlinear Programming::

Quadrature

* Collocation Weights::
@end menu

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------

@include preface.texi
@include gpl.texi
@include intro.texi
@include array.texi
@include matvec.texi
@include factor.texi
@include range.texi
@include nlfunc.texi
@include nleqn.texi
@include optim.texi
@include quad.texi
@include diffeq.texi
@include dae.texi
@include error.texi
@include install.texi
@include bugs.texi
@include cp-idx.texi
@include fn-idx.texi

@bye
